OSDOCS-14996-17: Documented the 4.17.34 z-stream RNs (#95031)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-17-release-notes.adoc

For any {product-title} release, always review the instructions on xref:../updating/updating_a_cluster/updating-cluster-web-console.adoc#updating-cluster-web-console[updating your cluster] properly.
====

// 4.17.34
[id="ocp-4-17-34_{context}"]
=== RHBA-2025:9289 - {product-title} {product-version}.34 bug fix update

Issued: 25 June 2025

> {product-title} release {product-version}.34 is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2025:9289[RHBA-2025:9289] advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2025:9290[RHBA-2025:9290] advisory.

Reviewer: this is probably expected behavior but i'm noting it just in case, the advisory links give 404 when trying to access them

Author: Hi, Jesse. Yes, this is expected behavior until the advisories are published and then the links are accessible to our customers.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm release info 4.17.34 --pullspecs
----

[id="ocp-4-17-34-known-issues_{context}"]
==== Known issues

> * A known issue exists where a Technology Preview-enabled cluster has Sigstore verification for payload images in `policy.json`, but the Podman version in the base image does not support Sigstore configuration, so the new node is not available. As a workaround, the node starts running when the Podman version in the base image does not support Sigstore, so use the default `policy.json` that does not have Sigstore verification if the base image is 4.11 or earlier. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-52313[OCPBUGS-52313])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A known issue exists where a Technology Preview-enabled cluster has Sigstore verification for payload images in the `policy.json` file, but the Podman version in the base image does not support Sigstore configuration, so the new node is not available. As a workaround, the node starts running when the Podman version in the base image does not support Sigstore, so use the default `policy.json` file that does not have Sigstore verification if the base image is 4.11 or earlier. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-52313[OCPBUGS-52313])
```

[id="ocp-4-17-34-bug-fixes_{context}"]
==== Bug fixes

> * Previously, if you tried to update a hosted cluster that used in-place updates, the proxy variables were not honored and the update failed. With this release, the pod that performs in-place upgrades honors the cluster proxy settings. As a result, updates now work for hosted clusters that use in-place updates. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-57432[OCPBUGS-57432])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, if you tried to update a hosted cluster that used in-place updates, the proxy variables were ignored and the update failed. With this release, the pod that performs in-place upgrades honors the cluster proxy settings. As a result, updates now work for hosted clusters that use in-place updates. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-57432[OCPBUGS-57432])
```

* Previously, when you defined multiple bring-your-own (BYO) subnet CIDRs for the `machineNetwork` parameter in the `install-config.yaml` configuration file, the installation failed at the bootstrap stage. This situation occurred because the control plane nodes were blocked from reaching the machine config server (MCS) to get their necessary setup configurations. The root cause was an overly strict {aws-short} security group rule that limited MCS access to only the first specified machine network CIDR. With this release, a fix to the {aws-short} security group means that the installation succeeds when multiple CIDRs are specified in the `machineNetwork` parameter of the `install-config.yaml`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-57292[OCPBUGS-57292])

> * Previously, a Machine Config Operator (MCO) incorrectly set an `Upgradeable=False` condition to all new nodes that were added to a cluster. The condition stated a `PoolUpdating` reason for set condition. With this release, the MCO now correctly sets `Upgradeable=True` condition to all new nodes that get added to a cluster so that the issue no longer exists. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-57135[OCPBUGS-57135])

Reviewer: just a reword suggestion to be clear that there are two different conditions being talked about. if it changes the intended meaning, feel free to ignore
```suggestion
* Previously, a Machine Config Operator (MCO) incorrectly set an `Upgradeable=False` condition to all new nodes that were added to a cluster. The stated reason for the `Upgradeable=False` condition was a `PoolUpdating` condition. With this release, the MCO now correctly sets an `Upgradeable=True` condition to all new nodes that are added to a cluster, which resolves the issue. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-57135[OCPBUGS-57135])
```

* Previously, the installer was not checking for ESXi hosts that were powered off within a {vmw-first} cluster, which caused the installation to fail because the OVA could not be uploaded. With this release, the installer now checks the power status of each ESXi host and skips any that are powered off, which resolves the issue and allows the OVA to be imported successfully. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-56448[OCPBUGS-56448])

> * Previously, in certain situations the gateway IP address for a node changed and caused the `OVN` cluster router, which manages the static route to the cluster subnet, to add a new static route with the new gateway IP address, without deleting the original one. As a result, a stale route still pointed to the switch subnet and this caused intermittent drops during egress traffic transfer. With this release, a patch applied to the `OVN` cluster router ensures that if the gateway IP address changes, the `OVN` cluster router updates the existing static route with the new gateway IP address. A stale route no longer points to the `OVN` cluster router so that egress traffic flow does not drop. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-56443[OCPBUGS-56443])

Reviewer: just a suggestion, but the first sentence is kind of long and might read easier if it's broken up:
```suggestion
* Previously, in certain situations the gateway IP address for a node changed and caused the `OVN` cluster router to add a new static route with the new gateway IP address, without deleting the original one. The `OVN` cluster router manages the static route to the cluster subnet. As a result, a stale route still pointed to the switch subnet and this caused intermittent drops during egress traffic transfer. With this release, a patch applied to the `OVN` cluster router ensures that if the gateway IP address changes, the `OVN` cluster router updates the existing static route with the new gateway IP address. A stale route no longer points to the `OVN` cluster router so that egress traffic flow does not drop. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-56443[OCPBUGS-56443])
```

> * Previously, a pod with an IP address in an OVN localnet network was unreachable by other pods that ran on the same node but used the default network for communication. Communication between pods on different nodes was not impacted by this communication issue.  With this release, communication between a localnet pod and a default network pod that both ran on the same node is improved so that this issue no longer exists. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-56244[OCPBUGS-56244])

Reviewer: should OVN be in backticks here like in the previous entry? and is "localnet network" redundant? feel free to ignore if this isn't corrent 😄 
```suggestion
* Previously, a pod with an IP address in an `OVN` local network was unreachable by other pods that ran on the same node but used the default network for communication. Communication between pods on different nodes was not impacted by this communication issue.  With this release, communication between a localnet pod and a default network pod that both ran on the same node is improved so that this issue no longer exists. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-56244[OCPBUGS-56244])
```

Author: Yeah, localnet might be a can of worms given the amount of entries in our docs repo. I'll surround the term with backticks to play it safe. Thanks!
